Concepts
========

As you get started with Dagster, you\'ll find that there are a number of
important concepts underpinning the system. Some of these concepts, like
pipelines (also referred to as DAGs or flows in other systems), will
undoubtably be familiar if you\'ve previously worked with tools like
Airflow. However, Dagster has some important differences from other
workflow systems to facilitate operating at a higher level of
abstraction.

Solid
-----

![image](solid.png){.align-center}

A solid is a functional unit of computation with defined inputs and
outputs. Solids can be strung together into [pipelines](#pipeline) by
defining [dependencies](#dependency-definition) between their inputs and
outputs. Solids are reusable, and instances of a solid may appear many
times in a given pipeline, or across many different pipelines.

Solids often wrap code written in or intended to execute in other
systems (e.g., SQL statements, Jupyter notebooks, or Spark jobs written
in Scala), providing a common interface for defining, orchestrating, and
managing data processing applications with heterogeneous components.

Solids can optionally define the types of their inputs and outputs, and
can define a typed schema so that their inputs can be read from external
configuration files. Solids can also enforce
[expectations](#expectation) on their inputs and outputs.

Solids are defined using the
`@lambda_solid <dagster.lambda_solid>`{.interpreted-text role="func"} or
`@solid <dagster.solid>`{.interpreted-text role="func"} decorators, or
using the underlying
`SolidDefinition <dagster.SolidDefinition>`{.interpreted-text
role="class"} class. These APIs wrap an underlying [compute
function]{.title-ref}, making its metadata queryable by higher-level
tools.

You can check out [the solid guide](../guides/solid/solid.html) for a
deeper dive on solids and how they can be used.

Compute Function
----------------

![image](compute_fn.png){.align-center}

The user-supplied function which forms the heart of a solid definition.
The compute functions are the business logic defined by you as the user;
this business logic is what will be executed when the solid is invoked
by the Dagster engine.

Outputs
-------

![image](outputs.png){.align-center}

An output is how a solid\'s compute function communicates the name and
value of an output to Dagster.

Solid compute functions are expected to yield a stream of outputs.
Implementers of a solid must ensure their compute function yields
`Output <dagster.Output>`{.interpreted-text role="class"} objects:

``` {.python}
@solid(output_defs=[OutputDefinition(int, 'one'), OutputDefinition(int, 'two')])
def return_one_and_two(_):
    yield Output(1, 'one')
    yield Output(2, 'two')
```

By referring to the names of these outputs, downstream solids can
selectively depend on certain outputs of a solid and not others.

In the common case where only a single output is yielded, Dagster
provides sugar allowing the user to just return a value instead of
yielding it, and will automatically wrap the returned value in a
`Output <dagster.Output>`{.interpreted-text role="class"} class:

``` {.python}
@solid
def return_one(_):
    return 1
```

Pipelines & DAGs {#pipeline}
----------------

![image](pipeline.png){.align-center}

DAG is short for [directed acyclic graph]{.title-ref}. In this context,
we are concerned with graphs where the nodes are computations and the
edges are dependencies between those computations. The dependencies are
[directed]{.title-ref} because the outputs of one computation are the
inputs to another. These graphs are [acyclic]{.title-ref} because there
are no circular dependencies \-- in other words, the graph has a clear
beginning and end, and we can always figure out what order to execute
its nodes in.

In Dagster, pipelines are directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) of solids \--
that is, they are made up of a number of solids which have data
[dependencies](#dependency-definition) on each other (but no circular
dependencies).

These pipelines are created with the Dagster
`@pipeline <dagster.pipeline>`{.interpreted-text role="func"} decorator.
Any solids invoked from within a pipeline definition function will
automatically be added to the pipeline DAG.

Paired with appropriate configuration, the pipeline can be compiled by
the Dagster engine into an execution plan that is executable on various
compute substrates. To support these substrates, pipeline execution is
managed via `ModeDefinition <dagster.ModeDefinition>`{.interpreted-text
role="class"}, which permit specifying different modes for execution.

Concretely, a pipeline might include mode definitions for local testing
(where databases and other resources will be mocked, in-memory, or
local) and for running in production (where resources will require
different credentials and expose configuration options). When a pipeline
is compiled with a config corresponding to one of these modes, it yields
an execution plan suitable for the given environment. The
[tutorial](../../tutorial/modes.html) showcases how you can combine
resources and modes in pipeline execution.

Dependencies {#dependency-definition}
------------

![image](dependency.png){.align-center}

Solids are linked together into [pipelines](#pipeline) by defining the
dependencies between their inputs and outputs. An important difference
between Dagster and other workflow systems is that in Dagster,
dependencies are expressed as data dependencies, not how or when they
execute.

This difference enables Dagster to support a much richer modeling of
dependencies \-- instead of merely ensuring that the order of execution
is correct, dependencies in Dagster provide a variety of compile- and
run-time checks.

Dependencies are expressed using Dagster\'s simple function invocation
DSL; you can check out the [tutorial](../../tutorial/hello_dag.html) for
an example of composing solids with dependencies.

Resources
---------

![image](resource.png){.align-center}

Resources are pipeline-scoped, and are typically used to expose features
of the execution environment (like EMR, Redshift, Spark, BigQuery, etc.)
to solids during pipeline execution. Resources bound to pipeline
execution through modes, and can also clean up after execution resolves.
They are typically defined using the
`@resource <dagster.resource>`{.interpreted-text role="func"} decorator
or using the `ResourceDefinition`{.interpreted-text role="class"} class
directly.

Repository
----------

![image](repository.png){.align-center}

A repository is a collection of pipelines that can be made available to
the Dagit UI and other higher-level tools. Repositories are defined
using the
`RepositoryDefinition <dagster.RepositoryDefinition>`{.interpreted-text
role="class"} class, and made available to higher-level tools with a
special `repository.yaml` file that tells the tools where to look for a
repository definition.

Composite Solids
----------------

![image](composites.png){.align-center}

To help manage the level of complexity that data applications tend to
reach, dagster provides a unit of abstraction for composing a solid from
other solids. We call this type of solid a **Composite Solid**.

This ability to compose solids can be used to:

:   -   organize large or complicated graphs
    -   abstract away complexity
    -   wrap re-usable solids with domain specific information

Refactoring a DAG of solids using composites is a very familiar
experience to refactoring code with functions.

Defining a composite solid is similar to defining a pipeline, but can
also provide mapping information to control how data and configuration
flows in and out of its inner graph of solids. You can see an example of
composition in action in the
[tutorial](../../tutorial/composite_solids.html).

Dagster Types
-------------

The Dagster type system allows authors of solids and pipelines to
optionally and gradually define the types of the data that flows between
solids, and so to introduce compile-time and runtime checks into their
pipelines.

Types also allow for custom materialization, and are typically defined
using the `DagsterType <dagster.DagsterType>`{.interpreted-text
role="class"}.

Environment Config
------------------

Environment config defines the external environment with which a
pipeline will interact for a given execution plan. Environment config
can be used to change solid behavior, define pipeline- or solid-scoped
resources and data that will be available during execution, or even shim
solid inputs.

Environment config is complementary to data (solid inputs and outputs)
\-- think of inputs and outputs as specifying [what]{.title-ref} data a
pipeline operates on, and config as specifying [how]{.title-ref} it
operates.

Concretely, imagine a pipeline of solids operating on a data warehouse.
The solids might emit and consume table partition coordinates and
aggregate statistics as inputs and outputs \-- the data on which they
operate. Environment config might specify how to connect to the
warehouse (so that the pipeline could also operate against a local test
database), how to log the results of intermediate computations, or where
to put artifacts like plots and summary tables.

Configuration Schemas
---------------------

In Dagster, configuration is explicitly typed with configuration
schemas. Configuration schemas define how users can config pipelines.
They tell the Dagster engine how to type check user-supplied environment
config against the pipeline and enable many errors to be caught with
rich messaging at compile time.

When creating resources `@resource <dagster.solid>`{.interpreted-text
role="func"}, solids `@solid <dagster.solid>`{.interpreted-text
role="func"}, or loggers `@logger <dagster.logger>`{.interpreted-text
role="func"}, you can supply a configuration schema to define the
available configuration for that object.

Execution Plan
--------------

An execution plan is a concrete plan for executing a DAG of execution
steps created by compiling a pipeline and a config. The execution plan
is aware of the topological ordering of the execution steps, enabling
physical execution on one of the available executor engines (e.g.,
in-process, multiprocess, using Airflow).

Users do not directly instantiate or manipulate execution plans.

Execution Step
--------------

Execution steps are concrete computations. When a pipeline is compiled
with an environment config, each solid is compiled into one or more
corresponding execution steps. Some execution steps are generated in
order to compute the core compute functions of solids, but execution
steps may also be generated in order to materialize outputs, check
expectations against outputs, etc.

Users do not directly instantiate or manipulate execution steps.

Dagster Event
-------------

When a pipeline is executed, a stream of events communicate the progress
of its execution. This includes top level events when the pipeline
starts and completes, when execution steps succeed, fail, or are skipped
due to upstream failures, and when outputs are generated and
materialized.

Users do not directly instantiate or manipulate Dagster events, but they
are consumed by the GraphQL interface that supports the Dagit tool.
